# Environmental-variables-and-machine-learning-models-to-predict-cetacean-abundance
## Environmental variables and machine learning models to predict cetacean abundance in the Central-eastern Mediterranean Sea.
### Dataset
In this repository you can find two dataset used during the experiment: 
* <b>Dataset D</b> (separate file). Sighting data for striped dolphin, common bottlenose dolphin and Risso’s dolphin were collected from 2009 to 2021, in the Gulf of Taranto. The dataset contains 1618 records of cetaceans’ sighting, of which 1264 are sightings of striped dolphin Stenella coeruleoalba, 225 are sightings of common bottlenose dolphins Tursiops truncatus, and 129 records are sightings of Risso’s dolphins Grampus griseus. Original dataset and dataset prepared for training machine learning algorithms are provided. The original dataset is enriched by 97 features, while the dataset used for training machine learning uses 28 variables, as described in Table 5 and Data description section of the paper. From the Dataset D, subsets have been extracted for this analysis, entitle S, G, T, S<sub>1</sub>, S<sub>2</sub>, S<sub>3</sub>, S<sub>4</sub>. 
* <b>Validation set</b> (separate file). Sighting data for striped dolphin and common bottlenose dolphin were collected during 2022, in the Gulf of Taranto. The dataset contains 7 records, of which 2 for bottlenose dolphin Tursiops truncatus and 5 for striped dolphin Stenella coeruleoalba. Original dataset and dataset prepared for training machine learning algorithms are shown. The original dataset is enriched by 97 features, while the dataset used for training machine learning uses 28 features, as described in Table 5 and Data description section of the paper. The validation set has been used only for validating the proposed abundance estimation strategy.
